packages/rxpress/README.md, before:

# rxpress

Reactive orchestration layer that pairs Express with RxJS to manage HTTP routes, static assets, events, cron jobs, WebSockets, SSE streams, and optional Next.js pages in one place. The library focuses on wiring, observability, and lifecycle management so you can focus on business logic.

- 🚀 **Event-first architecture** – every handler receives an emitter, making side-effects simple and testable.
- 🧭 **Declarative routing** – JSON APIs, HTML routes, static files, SSE, and cron jobs all share the same configuration model.
- 🔌 **Bring-your-own adapters** – plug in any logger or key/value store (Redis, DynamoDB, in-memory, …).
- 📈 **Observability included** – OpenTelemetry metrics + traces ready for Prometheus, Jaeger, or Tempo.
- ⚡ **Next.js ready** – serve pages and APIs from one process without extra glue code.

## Installation

```bash
npm install rxpress
```

## Quick Start

```ts
import { rxpress } from 'rxpress';
import type { RPCConfig, EventConfig } from 'rxpress';
import { createSimpleLogger } from './adapters/simple-logger.js';
import { createMemoryKv } from './adapters/memory-kv.js';

const routes: RPCConfig[] = [
  {
    type: 'api',
    method: 'GET',
    path: '/health',
    handler: async (_req, { emit }) => {
      emit({ topic: 'audit::health', data: { at: Date.now() } });
      return { status: 200, body: { ok: true } };
    },
  },
];

const events: EventConfig[] = [
  {
    subscribe: ['audit::health'],
    handler: async (payload, { logger }) => logger.info('Audit', payload as object),
  },
];

rxpress.init({
  config: {
    port: 3000,
    loadEnv: true,
    helmet: {},
    metrics: {
      OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_METRICS_ENDPOINT: process.env.OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_METRICS_ENDPOINT,
    },
  },
  logger: createSimpleLogger(),
  kv: createMemoryKv('starter'),
});

rxpress.addHandlers(routes);
rxpress.addEvents(events);
await rxpress.start({ port: 3000 });
```

Passing `helmet: {}` enables Express Helmet with its safe defaults; provide specific [Helmet options](https://helmetjs.github.io/) if you need to tune CSP or other headers. The example server in `packages/server/src/main.ts` demonstrates enabling Helmet alongside other middleware.

## Documentation

| Topic                                        | Summary                                                                       |
| -------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Getting Started](./docs/getting-started.md) | Installation, adapters, bootstrapping, and auto-discovery patterns.           |
| [Routing](./docs/routing.md)                 | API/HTTP routes, static files, SSE, cron jobs, and Next.js integration.       |
| [Events](./docs/events.md)                   | Emitting and subscribing to domain events with shared context.                |
| [Cron](./docs/cron.md)                       | Scheduling background jobs, retries, and graceful shutdown.                   |
| [Documentation](./docs/documentation.md)     | Generating OpenAPI specifications from routes and Zod schemas.                |
| [Adapters](./docs/adapters.md)               | Building logger/KV adapters and reusing the helper implementations.           |
| [Realtime](./docs/realtime.md)               | WebSockets and server-sent events.                                            |
| [Next.js](./docs/nextjs.md)                  | Serving Next apps alongside RPC routes, custom hooks, and testing strategies. |
| [Observability](./docs/observability.md)     | Metrics, tracing, and the local Grafana/Jaeger stack.                         |

## Example Project

The repository ships an opinionated example server under [`packages/server`](../server). It demonstrates:

- Programmatic registration + auto-discovery of routes
- Static asset delivery
- OpenTelemetry configuration flowing into Prometheus/Grafana/Jaeger
- Graceful shutdown hooks

Run it locally with:

```bash
npm install
npx nx run server:dev
```

## Testing

`rxpress` uses dependency injection for adapters, making it easy to supply in-memory doubles during tests. The integration tests in [`__tests__`](./__tests__) show how to spin up a server on an ephemeral port, hit endpoints with `fetch`, and assert emitted events.

## Contributing

We'd love your help! Follow [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) guide to report issues or submit a proposal.

## License

ISC © Matt Cox

Commit message:

Feat: added session-cookie handling

packages/rxpress/README.md, after:

# rxpress

Reactive orchestration layer that pairs Express with RxJS to manage HTTP routes, static assets, events, cron jobs, WebSockets, SSE streams, and optional Next.js pages in one place. The library focuses on wiring, observability, and lifecycle management so you can focus on business logic.

- 🚀 **Event-first architecture** – every handler receives an emitter, making side-effects simple and testable.
- 🧭 **Declarative routing** – JSON APIs, HTML routes, static files, SSE, and cron jobs all share the same configuration model.
- 🔌 **Bring-your-own adapters** – plug in any logger or key/value store (Redis, DynamoDB, in-memory, …).
- 🍪 **Stateless sessions** – opt into encrypted cookie sessions without persisting state server-side.
- 📈 **Observability included** – OpenTelemetry metrics + traces ready for Prometheus, Jaeger, or Tempo.
- ⚡ **Next.js ready** – serve pages and APIs from one process without extra glue code.

## Installation

```bash
npm install rxpress
```

## Quick Start

```ts
import { rxpress } from 'rxpress';
import type { RPCConfig, EventConfig } from 'rxpress';
import { createSimpleLogger } from './adapters/simple-logger.js';
import { createMemoryKv } from './adapters/memory-kv.js';

const routes: RPCConfig[] = [
  {
    type: 'api',
    method: 'GET',
    path: '/health',
    handler: async (_req, { emit }) => {
      emit({ topic: 'audit::health', data: { at: Date.now() } });
      return { status: 200, body: { ok: true } };
    },
  },
];

const events: EventConfig[] = [
  {
    subscribe: ['audit::health'],
    handler: async (payload, { logger }) => logger.info('Audit', payload as object),
  },
];

rxpress.init({
  config: {
    port: 3000,
    loadEnv: true,
    metrics: {
      OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_METRICS_ENDPOINT: process.env.OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_METRICS_ENDPOINT,
    },
  },
  logger: createSimpleLogger(),
  kv: createMemoryKv('starter'),
});

rxpress.addHandlers(routes);
rxpress.addEvents(events);
await rxpress.start({ port: 3000 });
```

Optional middleware such as Helmet or encrypted cookie sessions (`cookie-session`) are covered in [Getting Started](./docs/getting-started.md) along with the example server in `packages/server/src/main.ts`.

## Documentation

| Topic                                        | Summary                                                                       |
| -------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Getting Started](./docs/getting-started.md) | Installation, adapters, bootstrapping, and auto-discovery patterns.           |
| [Routing](./docs/routing.md)                 | API/HTTP routes, static files, SSE, cron jobs, and Next.js integration.       |
| [Events](./docs/events.md)                   | Emitting and subscribing to domain events with shared context.                |
| [Cron](./docs/cron.md)                       | Scheduling background jobs, retries, and graceful shutdown.                   |
| [Documentation](./docs/documentation.md)     | Generating OpenAPI specifications from routes and Zod schemas.                |
| [Adapters](./docs/adapters.md)               | Building logger/KV adapters and reusing the helper implementations.           |
| [Realtime](./docs/realtime.md)               | WebSockets and server-sent events.                                            |
| [Next.js](./docs/nextjs.md)                  | Serving Next apps alongside RPC routes, custom hooks, and testing strategies. |
| [Observability](./docs/observability.md)     | Metrics, tracing, and the local Grafana/Jaeger stack.                         |

## Example Project

The repository ships an opinionated example server under [`packages/server`](../server). It demonstrates:

- Programmatic registration + auto-discovery of routes
- Static asset delivery
- OpenTelemetry configuration flowing into Prometheus/Grafana/Jaeger
- Graceful shutdown hooks

Run it locally with:

```bash
npm install
npx nx run server:dev
```

## Testing

`rxpress` uses dependency injection for adapters, making it easy to supply in-memory doubles during tests. The integration tests in [`__tests__`](./__tests__) show how to spin up a server on an ephemeral port, hit endpoints with `fetch`, and assert emitted events.

## Contributing

We'd love your help! Follow [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) guide to report issues or submit a proposal.

## License

ISC © Matt Cox
